---
layout: post
title:  "Fossil mining, or: Extracting Files from an SVN Dump"
date:   2017-07-15 19:28:01 +1000
tagline: 'Breaking free of the WP chains with Jekyll and a Dockerized development environment.'
categories: [software-dev, docker, web]
---
Recently I was involved in assessing the state of a web project that had been in various stages of development over several years. My main role was to assess the code base to see what was going on. While this sounded fine in principle, the code was given to me as one giant SVN dump file -- something that I definitely wasn't expecting.

When I began my undergraduate degree, SVN seemed to be very much still in its prime <sup>[1]</sup>. It's something that I have experience using, as I recall my very first programming subject requiring me to use TortoiseSVN to manage my assignment's code. Despite this, the (few) skills I had have been banished to the darkest corners of my brain to make way for the surge in the popularity of git. This meant that I didn't really know what to do with the SVN file, and it may as well have been any arbitrary filetype that I didn't know how to read. Without access to the original SVN server anyway, I knew I was in for a big job extracting the files so I could look at them. This also meant the possibility of not only extracting the original files from the SVN dump, but also migrating them to the internal university GitLab instance.

As usual, I was expecting that doing this extraction on Windows wasn't necessarily going to be the easiest route. But as usual, this presented a great opportunity for me to continue my love affair with Docker. Spooling up a one-time lightweight Linux-based container to handle the load seemed like the right way to go.

[1]: Yes, I recognise that SVN is still alive and well. But really, come on, have you <i>tried</i> git?

## Bonus: Git Tutorial
As a side note, while working on this problem I came across GitHub's 15 minute git tutorial, which I highly recommend for anyone new to git. I'm a big fan of interative web tutorials like this, and it was something that I wish was available to me when I was first starting.

