---
layout: post
title:  "Hello, World!"
date:   2017-07-15 19:28:01 +1000
---
Inspired by comments on Andrej Karpathy's own website and academic blog, I've decided to set up my own research blog. There are plenty of resources out there that go into the merits of blogging as part of your research or PhD, not the least of which is that it actually <i>gets me writing</i>. As many others have anecdotally told me, I have struggled to maintain motivation and dedication during some parts of my candidature, especially when it comes to jotting down notes or ideas, or developing drafts of my impending thesis. As someone who can get very consumed and attached to their work, this hasn't sat well for me, leading me to pursue a variety of methods to help me push through it. 

This blog aims to be one of those methods. I often have a lot going on in my head, with lots of great ideas for my research, however I struggle to put that down on paper, despite being told many times that I'm a very capable writer. Blogging will help me get these thoughts out so that I have actual progress, I don't forget it and/or have to duplicate effort again later, and importantly to help facilitate feedback on my progress or line of thought. It may not necessarily be a matter of copy-pasta of these blogs into my thesis later due to having to clean up the language, but I think the more casual tone of a blog means its easier to get the writing started. I have strong perfectionist tendencies, with strong fears of submitting half-baked drafts to my supervisory panel, so at this point any writing I do is progress. Plus theres the additional benefit of being excellent practice at communicating my work and research ideas, which is undoubtedly valuable. 